**(2015) Gaming at the edge of sexuality**

**Introduction**
- Shaw starts their preface by talking about how research uncovered a lack of prioritisation in the mind of players when it came to marginalised representation (about people like them), as most were more concerned with actual issues (of homophobia, sexism and racism) in online or real life gaming spaces.
- Shaw also noted that people just did not take it seriously like the did other media representations. Responses about how video games are a niche medium (as of 2015 when this book was written), fantasy environments, designed for a narrow market.
- Shaw draws on the outburst following the Hunger Games film adaption's choice of actress to play Rue (described as having dark brown skin and eyes in the book) to not have met their own personal perception of the character (perceived by many as being white and blonde haired, despite descriptions stating otherwise). Shaw points out that this shows that representation does matter to audiences, and that people clearly connect with media texts via a "intertwined process of identity and identification" - namely, the critiques where not about the actress choice, but about how they pictured someone different in their mind, connected to that mental image and the character associated with that image, and then felt like that connection was lost when the representation on screen did not match their own internal picture.
- We can get pleasure from text that represent us, and also those that don't. But Media texts provides us with material for what might be possible, what identities might be constructed, and what worlds we might live in. It shows us what forms of existence could be possible.
- Shaw raises a warning with the solution often prescribed to lack of representation being a "add women and stir" approach (named by Charlotte Bunch), which ignored system and structural issues in the gaming industry that will not be resolved by simply adding more women to the profession, and also overlooks and dismisses men's ability to write create texts that are not representational of themselves or their fantasies - it becomes a "woman's responsibility" to fix it (weaponised incompetence?).
- Placing responsibility on women to fix the issue of female representation also ignores the fact that there are plenty of white, straight men who do actually also care about representation in video games - be it for their own moral grounding, or because they see video games production as being richer and better for it.
- Shaw presses for understanding the "why, when, and how" diversity is important - when will difference actually make a difference. 
- Critiquing the approach of "demanding representation", and arguing for representation of clearly defined, marketable identity groups excludes the ones who need representation the most - the ones who sit outside those margins and the market logic.
**Chapter 1**
- "Games research on representation tend to approach the issue by addressing gender, race, and sexuality as discrete and stable categories of analysis"
- There is also an assumption that marginalised audiences and producers want the end goal to be that all games have characters that share their exact identification markers to identify with them.
- Shaw critique identities politics by saying that one identity does not automatically signal the other, and society often treats identities as they cannot co-exist (example, lesbian identity being exclusive to white-ness).
- Lisa Walker critique postmodern approach to identities, saying that although identities are note fixed and "non-essential", they still need to be identified, for political visibility and everyday recognition.
- Bell hooks adds that postmodern theory is often dominated by white, male academics which risks becoming another discourse that excludes marginalised voices. Postmodernism risks ignoring the real experiences of being marginalised and othered.
- Hooks does recognise that PM critique of essentialism can be useful though. It helps people recognise that not all experiences are the same, even in shared communities, it recognises how class mobility has changed these experiences (particularly for black people) and it challenges these one-dimensional views of black people by discussing the individual and modern experiences of black people.
- John Jackson then adds that there are two steps to achieving a desired outcome around representation: Show how race is socially constructed by exposing the fiction of race, **then** we must seek to build new, healthier and more accurate narratives in order to rewrite the stories and meanings attached to race.
- Traditional media scholarship demonstrates that industries have historically produced texts for a particular imagined audience, and then divide the market into segments based on the presumed value of those segments. [[Gender Wars in Games#^Nintendo-sales-strategy]] - this argument that media producers are only creating what (they think) audiences will buy leads to individuals believing that their only tool in demanding representation is through their purchasing power.
- The issue of intersectionality and improving representation in games: Brenda Braithwaite points out that now developers are finally beginning to understand that female players want to play female characters, or LGBT players want to play LGBT characters - but overlooks what is wanted by players who are both female and LGBT? Do they want something different to heterosexual women? Or LGBT men?
- Stuart Hall also raises the issue with segregated visibility (or hypervisibility in some cases) - Example, in the 90's, media's attempt at attracting interest from the gay market did so by only displaying affluent, white gay men. Other gay identities were further marginalised, only present as "model minorities" where they pose little threat to the status quo by how they are represented alongside other marginalised identities.
- R. Dyer proposes that the real question to ask around stereotypes is what purpose do they serve in texts? They are symbols, but also precarious (A. McRobbie), as they must be consistently and continually repeated and reaffirmed through media texts and social discourse for them to maintain any hold on collective cultural understanding.