Nintendo’s research from Nintendo Power outreach  found that young boys made up a significant proportion of the video games market, so that  was where they focused their advertising efforts. Before long, other video games developers  and publishers followed, targeting their products at boys and men in order to maximise  their profits in an uncertain market. ^Nintendo-sales-strategy

As a result of the new and pervasive notion that video games and gaming technology was  largely the domain of boys and men, parents began to buy personal computers for their  sons, but not for their daughters. This meant that many girls and women in the 1980s – and  later decades, as well (Margolis & Fisher, 2002; Harvey, 2015) – were never granted equal  access to ludic technologies. Even before the early 1980s, however, men were often more commonly associated  with technology than women. Carol Shaw, one of the first female video game developers,  “never got the sense that the games she made were for one gender or another” when she 38 | P a g e  was hired by Atari in 1978, but still knew that “video game studios were predominantly  male” (Lien, 2013). ==This reminds me of how Gillett's marketing strategy to sell more razors by claiming hair on women was unclean or unfeminine has led to the unquestionable acceptance of this as a reality today, particularly the idea that it is unfeminine, ugly or undesirable - even amongst modern women this is a system few of us are comfortable opposing or resisting==

Only just over a decade before the inception of this stereotype, however, computer  programming was a job entirely dominated by women. The first computer programmers hired in 1945 and put in charge of one of the earliest computers, the Electronic Numerical  Integrator and Computer (ENIAC) – were all women, not because companies at the time felt  that women were best suited to tackling the complexities of computer software, but  because computer programming was considered easy, inconsequential, and not worth the  efforts of men.

After a few years, the complexity of computer programming was realised, and in the  late 1950s and early 1960s attempts were made to professionalise the job. This did not,  however, result in a greater respect for the women who worked with computer software.  Instead it involved distancing computer programming from women entirely; because 39 | P a g e  women were primarily associated with inferior, undervalued, and low-paid jobs - “Over the course of the 1960s, developments in the computing  professions were creating new barriers to female participation,” writes Nathan Ensmenger.  “An activity originally intended to be performed by low-status, clerical — and more often  than not, female — computer programming was gradually and deliberately transformed into  a high-status, scientific, and masculine discipline” (2010, p. 238).

From ejecting women from a profession which  they pioneered, to targeted marketing strategies that appealed to boys at the expense of  girls, to the generation of women and girls who were never granted access to ludic  technologies as a result of the archetype’s creation, the gamer as a social identity is built  upon a history of female exclusion.