---
aliases:
  - Why Japanese Perspective?
---
**Personal reason:** Japan is at the forefront of so many significant games to me. My very first game, and the one that helped me build a bond with my step-dad as we were first getting to know each other, was Final Fantasy 7.  This is STILL my favourite game today, thanks to the recent remake. The way that game makes me feel, the music, the characters, the story is a huge part of my personal motivations for including Japan, because I feel that Japanese produced media has this (unexplainable) way of inciting emotions in me like no other country's media does.

**Critique of Siloed Research:** The Critical Media Effects advocates for ending the polarization between these two subfields, arguing that media effects research often neglects social, cultural, and political macro factors, and has historically focused heavily on perspectives from **WEIRD** (Western, Educated, Industrialized, Rich, and Democratic) nations. This leads to an assumption of Eurocentric views as universal and risks symbolic annihilation by excluding non-Western and marginalized experiences

It is clear today that the industry not only recovered but became more popular than  ever, however, doing so necessitated a significant change in development and marketing  strategies by video game companies. Technology journalist Tracey Lien explains the postcrash tactics of the Japanese video game company Nintendo as one example of this:  Nintendo slowly reinvigorated the industry “with the launch of its Nintendo Entertainment  System, [...] its stringent regulations on what games could be released on its consoles,” and  by “presenting its Nintendo Entertainment System as more of a toy and less as a game”  (2013). From 1985 onwards, U.S. Nintendo products – and later those made in Europe,  Australia, and Japan, too – were stamped with a ‘Nintendo Seal of Quality’, which worked to  win back the trust of consumers by reassuring them that cheap cash-in titles were a thing of  the past. Advertising the Nintendo Entertainment System (known colloquially as the NES in  western countries, and the Famicom in Japan) as a toy rather than as a video games console  was another way of doing this, distancing Nintendo and its current products from both the  video game crash and the influx of poor-quality titles that were partially responsible for it. - ==**Japan's role in the re-upsurgence of the video game industry, and potentially the resulting popularity and continuation of the industry today was vital.**==
