Donovan presents an account of Japan’s entry into the games market from its beginnings in 1977 with the initial success of the globally successful Space Invaders (Taito, 1977) to industry leaders with the seminal games exclusively available for Nintendo’s Entertainment System (in Japan, the ‘Famicom’) in 1986 (Donovan, Replay, pp. 153-177 (p. 67). From the 1990s to the present, the dominant companies in Japan are Nintendo (responsible for the GameBoy, Nintendo64, GameCube, DS, Wii and WiiU console systems) and Sony (responsible for the PlayStation and its updated derivations, PSP and PSVita console systems) and the games discussed in this section were all playable on one or more of the systems produced by the two companies.
Kline argues that in the 1990s, the game industry became truly global as issues of national ownership became blurred by collaborations and company integrations

There are exceptions that have addressed issues of cultural specificity in relation to Japanese videogames. In Millennial Monsters, Anne Allison discusses the Pokémon game series (beginning with Pokémon Blue, Nintendo, 1996) as part of the franchise’s successful media mix within the context of contemporary Japanese nomadicism and consumer culture.

Early debates in Game Studies regarding the most appropriate manner in which to critically consider videogames were focused on commentary on games-as-narratives and as a vehicle for the delivery of story through representational elements (‘narratology’) and games as a unique entity in which play dynamic is privileged over representation (‘ludology'). 
Jesper Juul suggests that narrative may be separate from, or is contradictory to, the ‘computer-game-ness’ of a game. Ernest Adams states outright that any notion of interactivity directly opposes narrative, where narrative is authorially-inscribed and interactivity ‘depends on the player for motive power’ - videogames a unique medium, which he sees as ‘rules, goals, player activity, the projection of the player’s actions into the game world, the way the game defines the possible actions of the player’.

See Ewan Kirkland, ‘Storytelling in Survival Horror Videogames’, in Horror Video Games, ed. by Bernard Perron, pp. 62-78 (p. 65). 684 Jesper Juul, ‘A Clash between Game and Narrative’, paper presented at DAC (Digital Arts and Culture) conference (1999), transcript available at: <www.jesperjuul.dk> [accessed 4.9.13]. 685 Ernest Adams, ‘Three Problems for Interactive Storytellers’, (1999), available at: <http://www.gamasutra.com/view/feature/3414/the_designers_notebook_three_.php> [accessed 8.9.2013]. 686 Jesper Juul, ‘Games Telling stories -A Brief Note on Games and Narratives’, in Game Studies 1.1 (2001), available at: <http://www.gamestudies.org/0101/juul-gts/> [accessed 8.9.2013]. 687 Barry Atkins, More Than a Game: The Computer Game as Fictional Form, (Manchester; New York: Manchester University Press, 2003), p. 51