### **Geemu, media mix, and the state of Japanese video game studies**
**Background**
- Despite the undeniable contribution of Japan on the video game industry, specific issues relating to Japanese video games has garnered little research interest.
- Language is an obvious barrier, but one that needs more attention is the lack of knowledge of Japanese studies.
- Picard and Gagnon argue that in order to fully understand characteristics of Japanese video games, previous knowledge about Japan's culture, history, economy, and modern and contemporary development is essential.
- Historically, game studies have concentrated more strongly in Europe and North America, which has led to a more Western centric understanding of video games, even in Japanese video games. Example, the tagging of certain games as "JPRG" games, which indicates a distinct difference between RPG's produced outside of Japan, and those produced with (J standing for Japanese, specifically), the perception of Japanese games being "weird or crazy", or the fact that Japanese games are best defines BY their "Japaneseness"
- Picard and Pelletier-Gagnon state that therefore, despite studying an industry that qualifies as globalised and transnational, it is difficult to underline the defining features of video games developed in Japan beyond problematic categorisations. Proposing the questions, that if there are indeed distinctions between games produces in Japan, America and Europe, what would they be, and what would they mean?
- Development of the video game industry in Japan is "informed by a unique set of historical  and material circumstances” (Steinberg, 2012, p. xiii).
- Additionally, understanding that Japanese video game market has evolved alongside a specific commercial strategies, one in particular known in Japan as media mikkusu (Media Mix) which refers now to the marketing of interconnected works for different media (manga, anime, movies, etc) and tie-in products generally through promoting attractive characters (kyara) and and engaging fictional world (sekai). This concept  helps to contextualise the diverse expressions within the media mix socioeconomic system in Japan. By taking into consideration the special ties between Japanese video games, manga, and anime, the examination of media mix, and the place of Japanese video games within that environment, Picard and Pelletier-Gagnon demonstrate a deeper and nuanced understanding of Japan and it's place in the video game market.
- Picard and Pelletier-Gagnon highlight that despite Japanese increasingly imposing presence in the video game industry, it is still under-analysed in regards to its different modes of production and distribution, and their effects on players - not only in how players play games, but in how they consume them, the cultural practices that form around the, and in how these industrial processes influence the content of the games themselves.
- ==They go on to say that despite video games and popular culture being a solid part of academic landscape, there are few publications and research projects that consider examining video games from a non Western-centric perspective, with even few looking at the specifics of video games in Japan.== (TEN YEARS SINCE THIS PAPER)
- Though they note an increase in recent years, both in Japan and elsewhere as demonstrates by conference series “Replaying Japan” co-organized since 2012 by the University of  Alberta and the Ritsumeikan Center for Game Studies [RCGS]).
- Picard and Pelletier-Gagnon highlight the difficulty with engaging with Japanese game studies research produced in Japan as a Western researcher, is as Wolf and Perron (2003) describe as being primarily due to a lack of available translated texts, as well as the emphasis on research being about game design and production rather than an academic study of video games. Though they acknowledge that there is a growing potential for this academic field to form - which as their anthology was released in 2003, when the internet was really only beginning to come to its full potential, this could very well be an outdated take and "old news". In fact, Picard and Pelletier-Gagnon pointed out that it is the case that video game theory as an academic field has indeed continued to grow, with the establishment of an international network, with the first big step towards cross-cultural exchange between the West and Japan coming with the 2007 DiGRA conference held in Tokyo, Japan.
- When looking at the history of the study of Japanese video game industry from an academic context, three classifications of literature where identified by Akito Inoue (2007). These classifications (discourse on bad influence of video games, studies questioning video games as a media of socialisation, and works around video game design and market research) were indicative of scholars initial apprehensions towards games, and potentially greatly motivated by economic incentives.
- Not unlike the west, much of the early academic focus on video games was around the potential harm, particularly on children who were increasingly engaging with video games more and more. So much so that the term "Famicon syndrome" was coined to describe a particular effect the increased use and popularity of the Famicon system was having (Famicon was the name for the Home Family Computer system that emerged in the 80's). Books such as Bideo Geemu mou no kyoufu (Fear of the Game Brain) by Akio Mori (2002) incited fear that video games could potentially cause physical damage to a childs brain. Due to the relative success of this book with the general public, at the time of publication, critics often felt the need to address Mori's claims as part of their work in the early 2000's.
- ==There are then studies that emerged to analyse the relationship between how players engage with games and how gaming is shaped by its wider social context. Nakazawa Shin'ichi is an early example of this (1984). He treated Xevious as a piece of text whose narrative is shaped by both the designers programming, and the players imaginative interaction with it. He argued that games are similar to mythological texts in there ability to spark player curiosity, and extend and elaborate the story though continued play.==
**Authors Approach**
 - Video games in Japan are connected to the broader Japanese media ecosystem. Marc Steinberg who coined the term "Media Mix" adapted this term to include video games, naming this new phenomenon "Gamaeic Media Mix"
 - Schules argues that certain games in Japan are linked to Japanese soft power, and the concept of "kawaii" is gamified within. 
 - Challenge highlighted being language and translation - in that although many titles are translated, whilst this facilitates the ability to conduct research from outside of Japan, it also calls into question the legitimacy of these localised games versus their original versions.
 - Mandiberg argues that moments where localisation is not fully transferred, like that he observes in Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney, offer moments for international players to form cultural learning about "the Other".
 - Another note made about Japan's specific production of video games is the emphasis on the music and sound. These have been core element of video games to a point that several composers (Nobuo Uematsu to name one) are considered household names of gaming culture. They have even made a name for themselves over international waters, with popular live stage performances being held in placed like London showcasing some of their most well-known video game compositions.
 - Bringing it back to Nakazawa's analysis of Xevious, he shows that music forms another part of the the games wider paratextual ecosystem, explaining that multiple elements (not just the game play alone) are part of what shapes how gamers define and approach the game